---
layout: post
title: Why Choose Bloc
---
Bloc is truly phenomenal in that it provides everything I wanted, had been looking for, and needed. I like being shown exactly what I need to do: They have a set curriculum you go through that takes you step-by-step through what you need to know and do for building web applications. However, I also learn better by struggling through it myself: Each checkpoint has an assignment that you work through on your own and builds off of what you learned. It doesn't stop at just the lessons though. They teach you the necessary and usable resources. Whereas my Python class taught me Python and only in the context of their materials and resources (what if I wanted to use a different GUI than the simple one they provided? Too bad. So sad. Go search for that other GUI that you don't even know the name of). Bloc integrates Git/GitHub for version control, Heroku for deployment of your projects and websites, various Ruby/Rails gems, and so much more while simultaneously mentioning and encouraging you to find your own resources to use; to be creative. What if the curriculum doesn't go over it? Ask your mentor!

Yes, you get a mentor. You even get to choose who you want (don't worry, you can switch if it's not working out)! As so many people have said this is invaluable. What does having a mentor do? Well, for me having a mentor means accountability! Some days I'm on fire and others... I just want to watch Netflix all day. Knowing I have a meeting with my mentor, personally, keeps me motivated and on-track out of respect for not wanting to waste his time. I'm also relieved at the idea of having someone extremely experienced (Bloc has a high standard for their mentors) looking over my code and practices. Someone who is working in the field and knows what is and is not expected. It's also a great opportunity to ask questions that you may have from your checkpoint or assignment and dive deeper into a particular area. Also, they're just fun. I really enjoy my meetings with Matt.

Bloc is online and at your own pace. Ten hours a week? Forty hours a week? Yes. It's whatever you choose and whatever works for you. This is perfect for me. I started at 25-30 hours a week and the moved to full-time towards the end. It means that, as I said earlier, I am able to balance having a part-time job, being out and away from the computer for a bit, and also continue on my path to becoming a web developer. I get the best of all worlds. Also did I mention that it's entirely online? Which means, save for meetings with your mentor (which you can work out a time that works best for both of you), you can do it wherever, whenever. I've had days where my focus has been completely shot and I completed nothing I should have, and still others where I didn't move for the entire day because I was on a roll. This also makes it easy to fit your life. Bloc accounts for life. They allow you to "freeze" your program for a while if you have a family emergency, are sick, or just need a vacation. This extends your estimated finish date without shorting you any meetings with your mentor or putting you behind. They also let you change paces if you decide you want to put on more hours or take on fewer. Even if you do pick a pace, you're free to rush ahead as well.
It's up to you.

Direction and career services. As I mentioned earlier one of my biggest struggles with typical online courses or other resources was the isolated learning. I had no path and no direction with them. Once I completed whatever I was going through I only felt slightly accomplished as the knowledge I had slowly died out due to lack of application and use. Bloc has career services (even a tuition guarantee if you take the Software Engineer Track) that aid in your search once you approach the end of the program. They have extensive resources that include teaching you how to build your resume and portfolio, how to present them once you have them, what to expect in interviews, and so much more. They also are constantly hosting webinars and other talks about web development, careers, and again -so much more- that they welcome you to attend.

It's for everyone. Another of my concerns was if I would succeed with what I had, which was very little programming knowledge. I felt very intimidated and outmatched by going into a bootcamp. Spoiler alert; I was just fine. I'm nearly to the end of the program and have learned far more than I could have ever thought possible in such short amount of time!
