---
layout: post
title: My Coding Experience
---

Currently I am enrolled in Bloc's Full Stack Web-Developer track (I believe it's now called the Part-Time Web Developer Track) and I am almost through the program! I'm having the time of my life.

I have always loved the idea of coding, but for various reasons never decided to give it my full attention. About a year ago I took deeper look at it while taking an online class and it sparked such an interest I decided to make a career switch and go for it.

Having gone through periods of attempting to learn C++ through Stanford lectures on YouTube and programming books, basic HTML via online tutorials, Codecademy for several languages, self-paced courses from Udemy for web development, and an online course for Python, I still had never found a path that gave me direction. I learned things from them, but it all felt very basic and narrow (hurray, I can make a very specific set of games using Python using a specific browser-based tool made to run Python code). I was never given any context as to where and when I could use these skills. Yes, I understand a large part of being a developer is honing the skill of being able to self-teach and come up with solutions, but everyone learns a little differently and personally I needed to be given just a little direction and context in order to build a solid foundation to be free upon. During my time going through a self-paced, online web dev course from Udemy, I learned many great skills through it, but I always had this nagging feeling of, "is this going to get me where I want to go?" This is when I looked into programming bootcamps.

I was extremely hesitant at first. I talked to many, many people and read countless sources and articles about the pros and cons of bootcamps versus traditional colleges. I'm 29 and graduated with a BSc in IT Management (Why not computer science? Because... well, I don't know. Life changes.) not too long ago and recently paid off my loans, so the idea of going back for another X amount of years and acquiring more debt wasn't too appealing. It also meant potentially moving and probably classroom/commute time, so it was either that or finding something solely internet-based. For this reason I wanted the bootcamp to be the better of the two options (though in my head I still felt like college is the "official" way to go). After more discussions with individuals and hiring managers it sounded like the majority of companies are more concerned with what you can do than how many years you've been to school for (save for a few exceptions regarding higher positions and specializes roles). Sweet. Bootcamp is a go.

Now... Which one? Well, that was actually a really easy decision. Not only was Bloc mentioned to me by a friend, but after comparison it seemed like a no-brainer (for my situation). The other bootcamps were extremely expensive, required in-person classes, which meant moving to extremely expensive places regarding housing -this is separate from the tuition cost (Bloc is very affordable, by the way)- and were for many, many, many hours per week; this meant that I wouldn't be able to work and that my brain would be overloaded the majority of the time with no chance of a mental break (in case you didn't know more isn't always better. Information retention is greatly increased when you have time to get up and walk around). I know what a "bootcamp" is and I know there is value in being able to persevere through it. However, I know myself and my beliefs. I know that I would get burnt out being in a classroom staring at a computer for 70 hours a week with brand new information and concepts around every corner. I know that I often solidify information in my head and things start to click when I take breaks. For my own happiness and sanity I believe in balance for all things. Yes, I'm positive I could have succeeded doing an insane amount of hours per week, but why do that when I can work part-time to keep a steady flow of income, have a day or two here and there to still visit with friends and relax over dinner, and still be on my way to becoming a web developer? Bloc made this possible.
